---
layout: post
author: jhunter
title: Using telnet
categories:
- powershell
date: 2025-02-02
---

# Sources
`telnet /?`

# Summary
This blog explains a little about using telnet.

# Using telnet
`telnet` is a great tool for work and play even today. The protocol is unsecure and naturally it is unsuitable for communication which should be secured.

You can still use it to:
* Check for open network ports;
* Configure tools on your local network;
* Connect to fun resources like traditional MUDs or just check the weather.

I encourage anyone to google for fun telnet resources which are still available.

# Connect to a telnet resource
You can join to a network resource with telnet using the IP address or the hostname of the telnet server.

If you want to connect to the telnet server at 10.0.1.1, open up the Windows terminal, and enter this command.

```powershell
telnet 10.0.1.1
```

If the server uses an uncommon port, not 23 but maybe 10123, you need to specify the port number like this:

```powershell
telnet 10.0.1.1 10123
```

# Logging your telnet session in a text file
You can log your telnet session into a text file. To save what I do on telehack.com inside the text file at c:/temp/telehack.txt, use this command:

```powershell
telnet telehack.com -f c:/temp/telehack.txt
```

# Quitting a telnet session
Ending a telnet session is usually quite obvious. Frequently the session ends when you enter `exit` followed by a press of the `ENTER` key on your keyboard.

You can also quit a telnet session with this keyboard shortcut: `CTRL + ]`

On my French keyboard, the keyboard short cut is: `CTRL + $`

Helpfully these keys are located on the same place on the keyboard.

# Using telnet for configurations and tests
## Phonerlite
The SIP phone application phonerlite ( [phonerlite.de](http://www.phonerlite.de) ) has a telnet interface. 

After installing phonerlite on your PC, the telnet interface is available at this address: `telnet 127.0.0.1 50601`.

## Checking ports
Use telnet to see if a TCP port is open on a network device.

This example checks if a device is open to web traffic on port 80.

You know the test is successful if the screen is cleared and you get either some text or a blank screen. The fact that the screen was cleared means that the network port is open.

The test connection failed when the command prompt doesn't get cleared and you only see a connection failed message.

```powershell
telnet 192.168.2.1 80
```

