---
layout: post
author: jhunter
title: Alternatives to ipconfig
categories:
- powershell
date: 2025-01-26
---

# Sources
`ipconfig /?`
`get-command *netadapter*`

# Summary
This blog shows the command `ipconfig` and some PowerShell alternatives.

# ipconfig
## Using ipconfig
Use the command `ìpconfig` to display network data about your computer's network interface cards (NIC).

The output displayed includes ipv4 and ipv6 addresses, the names of the interfaces, and whether they are disconnected.

## ipconfig /all
The command `ipconfig /all` provides the same data, and adds more properties, such as the interface MAC address of each interface, and their descriptions.

## ipconfig /release
The command `ipconfig /release` causes your interfaces to stop using the DHCP-assigned IP addresses which they were using up till then.

This does not disable DHCP on the interfaces. If interfaces are still connected to their respective networks, the interfaces will try to get another DHCP lease automatically.

## ipconfig /flushdns
The command `ipconfig /flushdns` is handy when you think a website or web resource has updated its IP address, and your computer is using an old IP address.

After running this command, you can try to access the same resource and most likely the computer will then learn the newest IP address.

# Powershell alternatives to ipconfig
## Why even use alternatives to ipconfig?
In this section I describe alternatives to the command `ipconfig`. The command ipconfig is still available in Windows, and these commands mostly have the same results, so why use them?

Some reasons: The results of these PowerShell commands create objects with defined properties and methods, and also more documented examples. This makes the commands easier to incorporate into scripts, and easier to display on the screen.

The commands also use names which are similar to other PowerShell commands so you can easily find related commands for other network tasks.

Still, the commands shown below are sometimes a bit long. The command ipconfig` is shorter and therefore is still useful.

# Get-NetIPConfiguration
This command will show the interfaces and their IP addresses, as an alternative to `ipconfig`.

```powershell
Get-NetIPConfiguration | select InterfaceAlias,IPv4Address,IPv6Address,IPv6TemporaryAddress,IPv6LinkLocalAddress
```

# Get-NetAdapter
The command `ipconfig /all` can be used to reveal the interface MAC addresses. This command also shows this information:

```powershell
Get-NetAdapter | select name,ifindex,macaddress,linkspeed
```
# Set-NetIPInterface
You can release a DHCP IP address from an interface by disabling DHCP on that interface, and then re-enabling it.

```powershell
Set-NetIPInterface -InterfaceAlias Wi-Fi -Dhcp Disabled
Set-NetIPInterface -InterfaceAlias Wi-Fi -Dhcp Enabled
```

# Clear-DnsClientCache
This command simply clears the DNS client cache like the old command does, `ipconfig /flushdns`.



