---
layout: post
author: jhunter
title: TAB keypress
categories:
- powershell
date: 2025-03-09
---

# Source
[learn.microsoft.com](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/learn/shell/tab-completion?view=powershell-7.5)

# Command
`TAB` key press

# Definition
In PowerShell the `TAB` keypress completes typed input. The `TAB` key press is one the big facilitators of PowerShell programming.

The technology which does this completionn  is called Predictive IntelliSense.

`TAB` completion can be used for completing:

1. file paths
1. commands
1. properties of commands
1. pre-set available values of properties.

# Using `TAB`
## Files paths
Write in at least one letter, or:

```bash
& ./ 
```

or:

```bash
. ./
```

and then press `TAB`. 

You can also use asterisks `*` as wildcards around the letters, or just an asterisk by itself.

The terminal will auto-complete with the first available matching file, if any.

With intellisense, you will always get available files first before commands.

## Commands
Powershell often has very long commands. Write in the beginning of a command then press `TAB` to save typing.

The tabbed results are revealed alphabetically. If you think your result will be at the end of a list of options, you can select in an anti-alphabetical manner by holding `SHIFT` and pressing `TAB`.

## Properties of commands
After writing in a command, press a space, then a minus sign, then press `TAB`.

## Pre-set property values
Following a property, press `TAB` again to view any available pre-set values.

If there were none, you will start to see available files from the present working directory.


